README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>
# ![dbs](https://github.com/ahloytan/dbs-techtrek/assets/28771440/3e0d3888-bfb9-4600-b832-d4ced17574b7) DBS TechTrek Hackathon 2024 
A proof of concept full-stack web application for the DBS TechTrek Hackathon on 20th January 2024

# Docs
- API documentation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uwBqQFhrHikR9pl9s1yidvFapXShNABp_OkhFqPTc8c/edit
- [How to Set Up](#how-to-set-up)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Contact Me](#contact-me)

# How to set-up

## Pre-requisites
1. Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installed
2. Node.js (v18.18.0) | npm (v10.2.0)
3. Ensure you have [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
4. Install Supabase CLI

### Installing Supbase CLI
1. Start up Docker Desktop
2. Open command prompt, type in `cd backend`
3. Now, to start the Supabase stack, run `npx supabase start`. This will take about 5 minutes as multiple containers are being installed. Note: I'm using NPX
4. The local development environment includes Supabase Studio, a graphical interface for working with your database, running by default on `localhost:54323`
5. Navigate to the `SQL Editor` tab in the Supabase GUI and run `custom_claims.sql`, `seed_schema.sql`, and `seed_data.sql` in the `backend/supabase` folder
6. When you are finished working on your Supabase project, you can stop the stack with: `npx supabase stop`
7. Read the [guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli/getting-started?platform=npx) for more comprehensive explanation 
8. Log in if you are planning to deploy your project to the Supabase Platform by typing `npx supabase login`. This step is optional and is not required to use the Supabase CLI
9. Refer to [link](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/cli/supabase-migration-list) for the list of migration commands

## Frontend
1. Open command prompt, enter `cd frontend`
2. If this is your first time setting up, type `npm i`
3. Launch the project using `npm run dev`

## Backend
1. Launch Docker Desktop and start up all images (if it's not already running)
2. Ensure that you have a `.env` file with all the credentials in the root folder
```
CHATGPT_API=""
GEMINI_API_KEY="" 
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=""
TELEGRAM_SECRET_HASH=""
FE_ENDPOINT=""
FE_PREVIEW_ENDPOINT=""
SUPABASE_URL=""
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=""
```
3. Load the `.sql` script located in `backend/sql_scripts`
4. Open command prompt, type in `cd backend`
5. If this is your first time setting up the project, type `npm i`
6. Launch the project using `npm run start`

## Telegram WebHook
1. Search for `DBSTechTrekBot` in Telegram
2. Set up `ngrok`. Previously, the service didn't require an auth token. However, it's required now. Sign up an [account](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/setup/windows). You should see a command like `ngrok config add-authtoken <YOURTOKEN>` to add your auth token. Copy and run that command in the command line. You should see an output `Authtoken saved to configuration file: C:\<YOUR_PATH>/ngrok/ngrok.yml`
3. Since our server is running on `http://localhost:5000`, we need to expose our port by typing `ngrok http 5000` in the terminal
4. Beside the `Forwarding` property, we should see an `ngrok` url like `https://4f70-219-74-105-56.ngrok-free.app`. Go to `https://<ngrok-url>/telegram?setWebhook=true` to set bot webhook url. (Note: During development, the `ngrok` url will change everything you expose your port, which means you will have to set the webhook again whenever you restart it)
5. Message the bot or use any of its commands in Telegram to see it in action 
6. When hosting, repeat step 4 to set the bot's webhook url in production. The `ngrok-url` will be replaced with our production backend url
7. Note - To view/delete the web hook respectively: `https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getWebhookInfo`, `https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/deleteWebhook`, 

## Deployment
1. If you have not set up the deployment projects, head over to Vercel and create 2 repository on your own (1 for the frontend, another for the backend)
2. On the Vercel dashboard for your frontend project, you will have to set the following 2 environment variables. Alternatively, you can create a `.env` and place it in your frontend root folder
3. ![Untitled](https://github.com/ahloytan/dbs-techtrek/assets/28771440/f57d601e-0bc4-45aa-9f20-704881f8b2d9)
4. Both frontend and backend is deployed on Vercel
5. To deploy the frontend, navigate to the `frontend` root folder, type in `npm run build`, followed by `vercel .`
6. To deploy the backend, navigate to the `backend` root folder, followed by `vercel .`
7. By default, authentication is required when you are in `Staging`. Hence, if you want to test the API calls, go ahead and switch off the Vercel Authentication (remember to switch it back on after you are done) or you can simply deploy it to `Production` 
8. ![Staging](https://github.com/ahloytan/dbs-techtrek/assets/28771440/16232e9c-d9df-41c8-9bf4-a66af407e883)
9. Once you are satisfied with the previews, you can deploy to production by typing `vercel --prod`


<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

# Tech Stack

## Frontend
### Framework
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), [React.js](https://react.dev/), [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=next,react,redux&perline=3)

### Styling
[Material UI](https://mui.com/), [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=materialui,tailwind&perline=3)

## Backend
[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en), [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/), [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=nodejs,express,mysql&perline=3)

## Deployment
[Vercel](https://vercel.com/), [Supabase](https://supabase.com/) [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) (backup) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=vercel,supabase,firebase&perline=3)
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Libraries
1. [apexcharts](https://apexcharts.com/) - Visualisation
2. [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios) - HTTP requests
3. [date-fns](https://www.npmjs.com/package/date-fns) - Date formatting
4. [export-to-csv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/export-to-csv) - Export

5. [supabase](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@supabase/supabase-js) - Isomorphic JavaScript Client for Supabase
6. [telegraf](https://www.npmjs.com/package/telegraf) - Telegram bot
7. [gemini](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@google/generative-ai) - Google GenAI
8. [chatgpt](https://github.com/PawanOsman/ChatGPT) - ChatGPT
9. [ocr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ocr-space-api-wrapper) - Optical character recognition
10. [firebase-admin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/firebase-admin) - Firebase SDK (Alternative NoSQL database)
11. [jest](https://jestjs.io/) - JavaScript Testing Framework
12. [ngrok](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngrok) - Creates secure tunnels (paths) to localhost machine. Exposes a local development server to the Internet

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

# Contact Me
1. To explore more of my works, head over to [Portfolio Website](https://ahloytan.netlify.app)
2. Feel free to contact me if there are issues or if there are opportunities that I can help you with!

# Useful links
1. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4448340/postgresql-duplicate-key-violates-unique-constraint
2. https://supabase.com/docs/reference/cli/supabase-db-dump
3. https://github.com/telegraf/telegraf/discussions/1529

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

update unit test, renaming variables
added TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN to github secrets.
renamed variables to more intuitive ones.
updated instructions (README.md).
added 2 more policies

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>
# ![dbs](https://github.com/ahloytan/dbs-techtrek/assets/28771440/3e0d3888-bfb9-4600-b832-d4ced17574b7) DBS TechTrek Hackathon 2024 
A proof of concept full-stack web application for the DBS TechTrek Hackathon on 20th January 2024

# Docs
- API documentation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uwBqQFhrHikR9pl9s1yidvFapXShNABp_OkhFqPTc8c/edit
- [How to Set Up](#how-to-set-up)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Contact Me](#contact-me)

# How to set-up

## Pre-requisites
1. Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installed
2. Node.js (v18.18.0) | npm (v10.2.0)
3. Ensure you have [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
4. Install Supabase CLI

### Installing Supbase CLI
1. Start up Docker Desktop
2. Open command prompt, type in `cd backend`
3. Now, to start the Supabase stack, run `npx supabase start`. This will take about 5 minutes as multiple containers are being installed. Note: I'm using NPX
4. The local development environment includes Supabase Studio, a graphical interface for working with your database, running by default on `localhost:54323`
5. Navigate to the `SQL Editor` tab in the Supabase GUI and run `custom_claims.sql`, `seed_schema.sql`, and `seed_data.sql` in the `backend/supabase` folder
6. When you are finished working on your Supabase project, you can stop the stack with: `npx supabase stop`
7. Read the [guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli/getting-started?platform=npx) for more comprehensive explanation 
8. Log in if you are planning to deploy your project to the Supabase Platform by typing `npx supabase login`. This step is optional and is not required to use the Supabase CLI
9. Refer to [link](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/cli/supabase-migration-list) for the list of migration commands

## Frontend
1. Open command prompt, enter `cd frontend`
2. If this is your first time setting up, type `npm i`
3. Launch the project using `npm run dev`

## Backend
1. Launch Docker Desktop and start up all images (if it's not already running)
2. Ensure that you have a `.env` file with all the credentials in the root folder
```
CHATGPT_API=""
GEMINI_API_KEY="" 
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=""
TELEGRAM_SECRET_HASH=""
FE_ENDPOINT=""
FE_PREVIEW_ENDPOINT=""
SUPABASE_URL=""
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=""
```
3. Load the `.sql` script located in `backend/sql_scripts`
4. Open command prompt, type in `cd backend`
5. If this is your first time setting up the project, type `npm i`
6. Launch the project using `npm run start`

## Telegram WebHook
1. Search for `DBSTechTrekBot` in Telegram
2. Set up `ngrok`. Previously, the service didn't require an auth token. However, it's required now. Sign up an [account](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/setup/windows). You should see a command like `ngrok config add-authtoken <YOURTOKEN>` to add your auth token. Copy and run that command in the command line. You should see an output `Authtoken saved to configuration file: C:\<YOUR_PATH>/ngrok/ngrok.yml`
3. Since our server is running on `http://localhost:5000`, we need to expose our port by typing `ngrok http 5000` in the terminal
4. Beside the `Forwarding` property, we should see an `ngrok` url like `https://4f70-219-74-105-56.ngrok-free.app`. Go to `https://<ngrok-url>/telegram?setWebhook=true` to set bot webhook url. (Note: During development, the `ngrok` url will change everything you expose your port, which means you will have to set the webhook again whenever you restart it)
5. Message the bot or use any of its commands in Telegram to see it in action 
6. When hosting, repeat step 4 to set the bot's webhook url in production. The `ngrok-url` will be replaced with our production backend url
7. Note - To view/delete the web hook respectively: `https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/getWebhookInfo`, `https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/deleteWebhook`, 

## Deployment
1. If you have not set up the deployment projects, head over to Vercel and create 2 repository on your own (1 for the frontend, another for the backend)
2. On the Vercel dashboard for your frontend project, you will have to set the following 2 environment variables. Alternatively, you can create a `.env` and place it in your frontend root folder
3. ![Untitled](https://github.com/ahloytan/dbs-techtrek/assets/28771440/f57d601e-0bc4-45aa-9f20-704881f8b2d9)
4. Both frontend and backend is deployed on Vercel
5. To deploy the frontend, navigate to the `frontend` root folder, type in `npm run build`, followed by `vercel .`
6. To deploy the backend, navigate to the `backend` root folder, followed by `vercel .`
7. By default, authentication is required when you are in `Staging`. Hence, if you want to test the API calls, go ahead and switch off the Vercel Authentication (remember to switch it back on after you are done) or you can simply deploy it to `Production` 
8. ![Staging](https://github.com/ahloytan/dbs-techtrek/assets/28771440/16232e9c-d9df-41c8-9bf4-a66af407e883)
9. Once you are satisfied with the previews, you can deploy to production by typing `vercel --prod`

## Github Actions
1. There are some basic unit tests for the models and APIs. It's triggered upon pushing to commits to main
2. 3 environment secrets are needed to be stored on Github's secrets: `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`, `SUPABASE_URL`, and `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`
3. Be reminded to update environment variables in `.github/workflows/jest.yml` to allow the unit tests to run successfully

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

# Tech Stack

## Frontend
### Framework
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), [React.js](https://react.dev/), [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=next,react,redux&perline=3)

### Styling
[Material UI](https://mui.com/), [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=materialui,tailwind&perline=3)

## Backend
[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en), [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/), [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=nodejs,express,mysql&perline=3)

## Deployment
[Vercel](https://vercel.com/), [Supabase](https://supabase.com/) [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) (backup) <br>
![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=vercel,supabase,firebase&perline=3)
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Libraries
1. [apexcharts](https://apexcharts.com/) - Visualisation
2. [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios) - HTTP requests
3. [date-fns](https://www.npmjs.com/package/date-fns) - Date formatting
4. [export-to-csv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/export-to-csv) - Export

5. [supabase](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@supabase/supabase-js) - Isomorphic JavaScript Client for Supabase
6. [telegraf](https://www.npmjs.com/package/telegraf) - Telegram bot
7. [gemini](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@google/generative-ai) - Google GenAI
8. [chatgpt](https://github.com/PawanOsman/ChatGPT) - ChatGPT
9. [ocr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ocr-space-api-wrapper) - Optical character recognition
10. [firebase-admin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/firebase-admin) - Firebase SDK (Alternative NoSQL database)
11. [jest](https://jestjs.io/) - JavaScript Testing Framework
12. [ngrok](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngrok) - Creates secure tunnels (paths) to localhost machine. Exposes a local development server to the Internet

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

# Contact Me
1. To explore more of my works, head over to [Portfolio Website](https://ahloytan.netlify.app)
2. Feel free to contact me if there are issues or if there are opportunities that I can help you with!

# Useful links
1. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4448340/postgresql-duplicate-key-violates-unique-constraint
2. https://supabase.com/docs/reference/cli/supabase-db-dump
3. https://github.com/telegraf/telegraf/discussions/1529

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>
